Let's continue to build the base for our data model with some query references. So here we are back
in our project and as we just learned, we want to create references to our population combined query. Now
as we want to build something new and build the base for our data model,
I think it makes sense if we first create a new group which is then called Data-Model.
So let's do that first, I'm right-clicking right here, press new group and name that Data-Model, like
this,
so we have that new group right now.
That was a first step
but the main step is to create a reference to that population combined query.
Now to do that, we simply select a query that we want to create the reference to, go to the home ribbon
and go to manage and press reference.
Now this takes a few seconds, we can already use the time and drag that query into our Data-Model group,
like this
and here we have it now.
Now, just two things,
as you can see this looks exactly the same as the population combined query
but if you look into the formula bar or into the applied steps, you see that we only applied one change
or one action at the moment and this is the connection to the population combined query, nothing else.
If we would create a duplicate, then this duplicate would exactly look like this.
So we have lots of steps as can be seen in the formula bar and we applied steps and we have that additional
connection to the external data source.
Now in our case, if we would want to delete the population combined query now
and I can do that by right-clicking it and pressing delete,
we can see that we cannot delete that query because the reference query refers to that query,
so if we delete that, then the reference wouldn't work anymore
and this is why this is not allowed at the moment.
So this is good to know
but now we can close
our population combined query or leave that
query actually and go back to our reference query. Now
as I said, this is going to be the DIM, so the dimension region table,
so let's rename that first.
So I'm selecting the name right here and call it DIM-Region, like this and press enter,
now the query is renamed and we can now think about how we want to build that dimension table.
Now the first thing we see is that we have information in here that we don't need,
that was the problem of the initial query, right?
We have all this information combined in one query without any structure, as we want to change that,
let's first delete all the columns that we don't need.
So the country ID and the country might be a good idea to keep that in a region table
but the year and the upcoming information,
this is something we don't need right here
so let's delete that.
So I'm selecting year, press enter and hold shift and select the last column and press remove rows, remove columns
by the way
of course, not rows.
So this is it,
we now made a first step
but if you look at that list now, you'll see that we have lots of duplicates and that's not what
we want because this table should only contain one row for each country ID, for each country and for each
region in the end. Actually that's not true,
we of course have the regions multiple times but each country is only allocated to one region.
So nevertheless, let's get rid of those duplicate values we have right here for the countries.
So I'm selecting the country column, go to remove rows and press remove duplicates. Now this takes a
few seconds and then we have a list of all the countries again without any duplicates, like this.
Now what we don't have right here is a column with the regions or the continents and we don't have that
in our query editor at the moment,
so we need to import additional data, as we already know how this works,
let's do this quickly.
So I'm in the home ribbon, go to new source and text csv and now you'll find that codes-country-region
textfile.
This is the file we need,
so let's select that and press open
and now we see that something went wrong obviously because that's not a structure that we can import
into our query editor
but let's take a look at the delimiter up here and see if we can fix that. At the moment,
this is set to a fixed width
so this would assume that we can kind of draw a vertical line between each of the columns
we have data for
and if I would draw a vertical line right here,
well this doesn't work
and this is why the data we see right here look kind of messed up
but let's change that.
If we look at the data, we see that we have a tab between each of the data,
so if we select tab up here, like this, then this looks better, right?
So let's now press OK and bring that query into our query editor,
like this. The first thing I see is that we have the problem that we always have because we unselected
the automatic data detection, we have to turn the first row into headers.
We know how to do that right,
so let's go to the home ribbon and press use first row as headers.
Now this looks good,
now let's use the time to take a look at the columns and at the data we actually have
and let's rename the column at the same time.
So the first column is the region code,
well we need that and we should call it like this, right.
The second information is the country code, well we could need that information but actually we don't
because in the DIM-Region table, we have the country ID and the country name
and if you look into the fourth column, we also have the country ID right here, so we don't need that
A2
and also that A3 codes because we can identify the region and the country at the moment, so we can
get rid of those two columns by selecting them and press remove columns.
The same thing is true for the name right here,
we have the name already in the DIM-Region table so no need to have it right here,
well let's remove that.
So now we should rename that column to country ID because that's important,
we need to have the same name right here that we have in the DIM-Region table because later, we will kind
of add that information and without wanting to tell you what we are going to plan in the next minutes,
we should make sure that those two columns are named the same which is true in our case and we can also put
that right here.
So we have a country ID,
we have a country name in the DIM-Region table and we have a region code,
so this would help us to kind of add the data.
The problem at the moment is that we don't have the full region names,
I would prefer to have Asia and Europe here instead of AS and EU. To do this,
we need to add data manually,
so we won't import those from an external source. Although we could do that
but I want to do it on my own.
Let's see how this works in the next video.